governance.md: add inactivity policy for any roles (#378)
expressjs/discussions: docs/GOVERNANCE.md

To support the health and continuity of the project, all individuals holding a role within the community (Triager, Committer, Project Captain, or TC member) are expected to maintain active participation.

Inactivity is defined as the absence of meaningful involvement in the project—such as contributions, code reviews, triage, meeting attendance, or discussion participation—for a continuous period of 6 months.

### Exceptions
Anyone may request a temporary leave from active participation due to personal or professional reasons. In such cases, the individual should inform the relevant team or the Technical Committee (TC). During this time, the inactivity policy is paused, and the individual will not be flagged as inactive.

### Inactivity Process
- If no exception is communicated and inactivity is detected, the individual will be notified and invited to resume participation within a reasonable timeframe.
- If participation is not resumed, the individual may be transitioned to an emeritus role that reflects their past contributions.
- The emeritus status helps preserve a clear record of contributors who have meaningfully shaped the project over time.

### Accountability

> - The Technical Committee (TC) is responsible for monitoring activity levels and applying this policy fairly and transparently, in coordination with other relevant teams.

Author: Captains must also have this role, and in case a captain is inactive, the TC will carry out the process, WDYT?.
```suggestion
- The Technical Committee (TC) and the respective captains of each package/team are responsible for monitoring activity levels and enforcing this policy fairly and transparently, in coordination with other relevant teams.
```

The list can be found at [https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/blob/HEAD/docs/contributing/captains_and_committers.md#current-initiative-captains](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/blob/HEAD/docs/contributing/captains_and_committers.md#current-initiative-captains)

> ## Inactivity Policy for Any Role
> 
> To ensure the *health* and *continuity* of the project, anyone holding a *role* within the community (*Triager, Committer, Project Captain,* or *TC member*) must maintain *active participation*.
> 
> **Definition of *inactivity*:** Not having *activity* in the project (such as *contributions, reviews, triage, attending meetings, participating in discussions,* etc.) for a *consecutive period of 6 months*.
> 
> **Process upon detecting *inactivity*:**
> 
> - The person will be *notified* about their *inactive status* and *invited* to *resume participation* within a *reasonable timeframe*.
> - If *participation* is *not resumed* after that period, the person may be *removed* or *moved to an inactive status* corresponding to their *role*.
> - In case of *disagreement*, the situation may be *discussed* and *resolved by consensus* within the *TC* or the respective *team*.
> 

Reviewer: Overall, this seems like a great addition. Just a few notes:

- There are situations where someone may need to step away from the project temporarily for personal or professional reasons. In such cases, I think it makes sense to pause their participation rather than trigger the inactivity policy. Ideally, the person should inform the project in advance so this can be taken into account.
- I personally prefer the term emeritus over inactive. It carries a more respectful tone and helps us maintain a clear and appreciative record of everyone who has contributed to the project.
- It would be helpful to clarify who is responsible for monitoring and enforcing this policy. I assume the TC would take on this role, but we should make that explicit to ensure accountability is clear.

```suggestion
## Inactivity and Emeritus Policy for Any Role

To support the health and continuity of the project, all individuals holding a role within the community (Triager, Committer, Project Captain, or TC member) are expected to maintain active participation.

Inactivity is defined as the absence of meaningful involvement in the project—such as contributions, code reviews, triage, meeting attendance, or discussion participation—for a continuous period of 6 months.

### Exceptions
Anyone may request a temporary leave from active participation due to personal or professional reasons. In such cases, the individual should inform the relevant team or the Technical Committee (TC). During this time, the inactivity policy is paused, and the individual will not be flagged as inactive.

### Inactivity Process
- If no exception is communicated and inactivity is detected, the individual will be notified and invited to resume participation within a reasonable timeframe.
- If participation is not resumed, the individual may be transitioned to an emeritus role that reflects their past contributions.
- The emeritus status helps preserve a clear record of contributors who have meaningfully shaped the project over time.

### Accountability
- The Technical Committee (TC) is responsible for monitoring activity levels and applying this policy fairly and transparently, in coordination with other relevant teams.
- In case of disagreement, the situation can be discussed and resolved by consensus within the TC or appropriate team.

```

The list can be found at [https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/blob/HEAD/docs/contributing/captains_and_committers.md#current-initiative-captains](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/blob/HEAD/docs/contributing/captains_and_committers.md#current-initiative-captains)

## Inactivity and Emeritus Policy for Any Role

To support the health and continuity of the project, all individuals holding a role within the community (Triager, Committer, Project Captain, or TC member) are expected to maintain active participation.

> Inactivity is defined as the absence of meaningful involvement in the project—such as contributions, code reviews, triage, meeting attendance, or discussion participation—for a continuous period of 6 months.

Reviewer 2: Discussed on TC call today and we are good to go forward with this. We will update the other contributing guide to align on 6 months going forward.

### Exceptions
Anyone may request a temporary leave from active participation due to personal or professional reasons. In such cases, the individual should inform the relevant team or the Technical Committee (TC). During this time, the inactivity policy is paused, and the individual will not be flagged as inactive.

### Inactivity Process
- If no exception is communicated and inactivity is detected, the individual will be notified and invited to resume participation within a reasonable timeframe.

> - If participation is not resumed, the individual may be transitioned to an emeritus role that reflects their past contributions.

Reviewer 3: I would much prefer that we just notify them and transition them.  Adding an additional waiting period is just another thing to track.  It's also ambiguous what a "reasonable timeframe is", and that can get muddy trying to decide that a specific time period would be.  And none of that is worth it because in nearly all cases, people who have stopped participating are not suddenly going to spring into action again just because we have notified them they have been inactive.

Reviewer 2: I agree, It is really easy to just re-add folks.

Reviewer 2: The new wording reflects this change.
